[Music]
hi everybody this is Joanna and today I
would like to present to you two books
about two different very tenacious
diseases the first one is about Mera and
the second one is about cancer and as we
know most likely uh if you find out you
have either of these you are in for a
bit of a fight until it is cleared from
your body if you are fortunate enough to
have that happen and yes thanks to
technological advances and scientific
research we are making strides but still
it's not perfect so the first book I'd
like to tell you about today is called
superbug and the subtitle is a little
long medicine disregarded it antibiotics
can't control it Mera drug resistance
since staff may be the most frightening
epidemic since AIDS Mera MSA stands for
methylin resistant staus orius and this
is a certain type of bacteria that has
acquired a resistant to many of the
antibiotics we have in our Arsenal so if
you should have it enter into you
through a small cut uh unbeknownst to
you of course um you are in for quite a
fight simply because the antibiotics we
would normally use would not work to get
rid of it and so there's only a limited
number of antibiotics that work the
problem with this is of course that many
doctors for a long long time were not
recognizing this were thinking of
something else and they would prescribe
an antibiotic yet the infection would
just rage and spread through the body
and cause a relatively quick death uh
with a lot of fever and pain and
invasion of the lungs um and so Marin
McKenna in this book has taken some time
to investig at the appearance of Mera uh
ways it has been treated ways it has
been tracked by hospitals and the CDC so
that uh doctors are more alert to what's
going on this book has stories uh of
actual patients some who survive and
some who have died and uh there were I
shed a few tears reading this book when
you hear about a small child getting
Merc and passing on um it's not
necessarily the negligence of doctors um
it's just such an incredibly
ravaging
disease that's very difficult to treat
because of uh society's overuse of
antibiotics bacteria have uh G evolved
ways to avoid uh dying in the presence
of antibiotics so these antibiotics are
no longer effective if you worry a lot
uh this book might not be the best book
to read but it's definitely informative
um and very helpful cuz um merca is a
risk to just about anyone the the next
book is about cancer and no one up until
this point has ever written a
comprehensive biography of cancer until
today this book is called the Emperor of
all maladies a biography of cancer by
sidartha mcgie and uh once again this is
one of those books that is proving that
doctors can write and they can write
beautiful books very touching moving
books about the disease or condition
that they they are writing about this
book I listened to on audio and I found
it to be an incredible overview of the
entire history of cancer and of Cancer
Treatments from the early barbaric
cuting to the sophisticated search for
the molecular underpinnings and
treatments of the disease um it's a
phenomenal book and it highlights much
of what I have been learning and
teaching during my career as a cell
biologist and it's a little bit
scholarly but it's of great benefit if
you are very curious so if you have a
scientific mind you would like it but if
you also know someone who is undergoing
cancer treatment um why did the radical
mastectomy fall out of favor why was it
done in the first place why are these
surgeries followed up with uh
chemotherapy and how is it we are trying
to create brand new drugs that are
specifically targeted to certain
features of cancer cells that are not
showing up in normal cells the only
thing that was missing from this book
that he just ever so lightly touched on
anti anti-angiogenesis drugs and these
are drugs that stop the growth of blood
vessels because cancer seems to be able
to draw blood vessels unto itself using
specific chemicals and so there were
drugs created and I think there's a a
lovely story behind that uh an amazing
story of how these drugs came about once
again just like the other book there are
stories where people pass on and then
there are stories of Hope where they
survive and so um I think both of these
books are great for the Curious medical
person in yourself and Al for the
Curious scientist so once again I'm
recommending Super Bug by Marin McKenna
about Mera and I'm also recommending the
Emperor of all maladies about cancer by
sidarthur mccy enjoy either of these
books thanks for listening bye